
  
    
      prs.rt('data_start');Volume 93, Issue 7, 26 June 1998, Pages 1195–1205ArticleArabidopsis LEAFY COTYLEDON1 Is Sufficient to Induce Embryo Development in Vegetative CellsTamar Lotan1, Masa-aki Ohto1, 2, Kelly Matsudaira Yee1, Marilyn A.L West1, 3, Russell Lo1, 4, Raymond W Kwong1, Kazutoshi Yamagishi1, Robert L Fischer2, Robert B Goldberg3, John J Harada1, 1, , 1 Section of Plant Biology, Division of Biological Sciences, University of California, Davis, California 95616, USA2 Department of Plant and Microbial Biology, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA3 Department of Molecular, Cell, and Developmental Biology, University of California, Los Angeles, California 90024-1606, USAReceived 9 December 1997. Revised 7 May 1998. Available online 9 October 2000.http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0092-8674(00)81463-4, How to Cite or Link Using DOIPermissions & ReprintsAbstractThe Arabidopsis LEAFY COTYLEDON1 (LEC1) gene is required for the specification of cotyledon identity and the completion of embryo maturation. We isolated the LEC1 gene and showed that it functions at an early developmental stage to maintain embryonic cell fate. The LEC1 gene encodes a transcription factor homolog, the CCAAT box–binding factor HAP3 subunit. LEC1
 RNA accumulates only during seed development in embryo cell types and 
in endosperm tissue. Ectopic postembryonic expression of the LEC1
 gene in vegetative cells induces the expression of embryo-specific 
genes and initiates formation of embryo-like structures. Our results 
suggest that LEC1 is an important regulator of embryo development that 
activates the transcription of genes required for both embryo 
morphogenesis and cellular differentiation.prs.rt("abs_end");IntroductionHigher
 plant embryogenesis is divided conceptually into two distinct phases: 
early morphogenetic processes that give rise to embryonic cell types, 
tissues, and organ systems, and late maturation events that allow the 
fully developed embryo to enter a desiccated and metabolically quiescent
 state (
                  [52] and [13]).
 Upon reception of the appropriate signals, the dormant embryo 
germinates, and seedling development begins. Thus, seed maturation and 
metabolic quiescence interrupt the morphogenetic processes that occur 
during embryogenesis and seedling development. This unique form of 
development underlies, in part, a plant's ability to make seeds, a trait
 that has conferred significant selective advantages to higher plants (Steeves 1983).
 Because lower plants do not make seeds and do not undergo embryo 
maturation, this bipartite mode of embryogenesis is thought to have 
resulted from the insertion of maturation events into the higher plant 
life cycle (reviewed by
                  [51], 
                  [47] and [16]).
 Little is known at the mechanistic level about how distinct processes 
that occur during the morphogenesis and seed maturation phases are 
coordinated.Genetic strategies employed to identify regulators of Arabidopsis thaliana embryo development have distinguished several gene classes that affect embryogenesis. One class of mutations, including raspberry, tinman, and abnormal suspensor ( 
                  [41], 
                  [56], 
                  [7] and [49];
 T. L. et al, unpublished data), causes the arrest of embryo 
morphogenesis. Many of the corresponding proteins are involved in basic 
cellular functions and probably do not perform direct regulatory roles. A
 second class of genes predicted to play a role in embryonic pattern 
formation has been identified (Mayer et al. 1991). The expression patterns of two such genes, EMB30 (GNOM) and KNOLLE, suggest that they do not function specifically during embryogenesis ( 
                  [42] and [23]). Another class, including SHOOTMERISTEMLESS and SCARECROW, is active in the developing shoot or root apical meristems ( 
                  [9] and [22]).
 Although these genes play key roles in meristem function, they are 
required for meristem formation during both embryogenesis and 
postembryonic development. ABSCISIC ACID INSENSITIVE3 (ABI3), a fourth gene class, encodes an embryo-specific transcription factor that regulates genes expressed during seed maturation ( 
                  [20] and [38]).
 However, its function is limited to the late stages of embryogenesis. 
Although each of these gene classes is essential for embryo development,
 none appears to act specifically during embryogenesis to control both 
the morphogenesis and maturation phases.The LEAFY COTYLEDON1 (LEC1) gene, by contrast, controls many distinct aspects of embryogenesis (Meinke 1992Meinke, 1992, 1994;  
                  [53] and [39]). As summarized in Figure 1, the lec1 mutation is pleiotropic, indicating several roles in late embryo development. LEC1 is required for specific aspects of seed maturation. lec1
 mutant embryos are intolerant of desiccation and show defects in the 
expression of some, but not all, maturation-specific genes ( 
                  [28], 
                  [53] and [39]). LEC1 is also involved in inhibiting premature germination. lec1
 mutant embryos exhibit morphological and molecular characteristics of 
both embryogenesis and postgerminative seedling development, showing 
that aspects of both programs can occur simultaneously (Meinke 1992Meinke, 1992, 1994; West et al. 1994). LEC1 plays a role in the specification of embryonic organ identity as well. Embryonic leaves or cotyledons of lec1 mutants possess trichomes, epidermal hairs, which normally form only on leaves and stems in Arabidopsis ( 
                  [28] and [53]). The anatomy of lec1 mutant cotyledons is intermediate between those of a wild-type cotyledon and a leaf (West et al. 1994). Finally, LEC1 appears to act only during embryo development. Desiccation-intolerant lec1
 embryos can be rescued from plants before desiccation and germinated to
 produce homozygous mutant plants that are fertile and that do not 
display any obvious vegetative or floral mutant phenotypes ( 
                  [28] and [53]). Two other LEC class genes, LEC2 and FUSCA3 (FUS3), are thought to share similar or overlapping functions with LEC1, including the specification or cotyledon identity and the maintenance of maturation ( 
                  [2], 
                  [18] and [29]). Although nothing has been reported about how LEC
 class genes act at the molecular level, their involvement in many 
diverse aspects of embryogenesis suggests that these genes serve as 
regulators of higher plant embryonic processes.Figure 1. Pleiotropic Effects of the lec1 Mutation on Embryo DevelopmentMajor differences between wild-type and lec1
 mutant embryos are as follows. Embryo shape: the axes of mutant embryos
 are short, and their cotyledons are round and do not curl. Anthocyanin 
generally accumulates at the tips of mutant cotyledons. Precocious 
germination: the shoot apical meristems of lec1 embryos are 
activated in that they are domed and possess leaf primordia, unlike 
their wild-type counterparts that are flat and do not contain leaf 
primordia. Defects in seed maturation: lec1 mutant embryos are intolerant of desiccation and normally die if dried on the plant. However, lec1
 embryos isolated before desiccation can be germinated to produce 
fertile homozygous mutant plants. The promoter of a 7S storage protein 
gene that is normally active during wild-type embryogenesis is not 
active in the lec1 mutant. Incomplete specification of cotyledon identity: lec1 seedlings possess trichomes on cotyledons. Trichomes are present on Arabidopsis leaves and stems but not on wild-type cotyledons. a, axis; c, cotyledon; SAM, shoot apical meristem.View thumbnail imagesView high quality image (116K)In this paper, we report the isolation of the LEC1 gene and show that it encodes a homolog of a conserved eukaryotic transcription factor. Expression studies showed that the LEC1 gene is active only within seeds during both early and late seed development. Ectopic expression of the LEC1
 gene induces embryonic programs and embryo development in vegetative 
cells. We suggest that LEC1 is an important transcriptional regulator 
required for both early and late embryogenesis that controls and 
coordinates higher plant embryo development.ResultsLEC1 Functions Early in EmbryogenesisThe Lec1− phenotype indicates that the gene plays a significant role in controlling late embryo development (Figure 1). To determine whether the gene is also required for early embryonic events, we analyzed early-stage lec1 mutant embryos and detected defects in suspensor morphology. The wild-type suspensor, shown in Figure 2D,
 is a transient embryonic structure consisting of a single file of six 
to eight cells that are identical genotypically to embryo proper cells. 
By contrast, Figure 2A and Figure 2B show that globular- and transition-stage embryos homozygous for either of the two lec1
 mutant alleles had abnormal suspensors. Cell walls parallel to the 
suspensor axis were observed, suggesting that aberrant cell divisions 
occurred in the mutant suspensors. As summarized in Table 1, abnormal suspensors rarely observed in wild-type embryos were detected initially in globular/transition-stage lec1 embryos and were represented in approximately 90% of mutant torpedo-stage embryos.Figure 2. Embryogenic Potential of lec1 Mutant Suspensor(A)–(D) Seeds from the indicated plants were cleared and photographed using Nomarski optics. lec1-1 (A); lec1-2 (B); lec1-2 fus3-3
 (C); wild type (D). Arrowheads indicate sites of abnormal suspensor 
cell divisions. Bar, 25 μm. (E) A primary (top) and a secondary (bottom)
 embryo isolated from a lec1-2 fus3-3 double mutant. Bar, 0.1 mm. (F) A germinated lec1-2 fus3-3 seed containing twin seedlings. Bar, 0.5 mm. ep, embryo proper; s, suspensor.View thumbnail imagesView high quality image (209K)Table 1.
        Suspensor Abnormalities in Mutant EmbryosEmbryonic StagesGlobular/TransitionHeartTorpedoWild type1/162 (0.01%)a2/78 (2.6%)0/200 (0%)lec1-125/115 (22%)87/128 (68%)49/54 (91%)lec1-215/164 (9.0%)48/80 (60%)29/32 (90%)lec21/189 (0.01%)4/47 (8.5%)21/54 (39%)fus3-39/97 (9.3%)21/112 (19%)10/89 (11%)abi3-30/68 (0%)0/62 (0%)0/20 (0%)aNumber of embryos with abnormal suspensors/total embryos analyzed (percent embryos with abnormal suspensors).Full-size tableWe investigated a lec1 fus3 double mutant (West et al. 1994) to learn whether other LEC class genes could enhance the effect of the lec1 mutation on suspensor development. Figure 2C shows that suspensor abnormalities were observed in lec1-2 fus3-3
 double mutants at an early embryonic stage as with the single mutants. 
By contrast to wild-type suspensors that undergo a limited number of 
cell divisions, suspensor cells continued to proliferate in the double 
mutants. Subsequently, secondary embryos, shown in Figure 2E, formed from these abnormal suspensor cell masses in approximately 20% (118/598) of lec1-2 fus3-3 seeds. Primary embryos were attached to secondary, suspensor-derived embryos either at or near the latter's shoot apices (Figure 2E)
 or at their root ends (data not shown). Both primary and secondary 
embryos were able to germinate, and viable seedings were produced (Figure 2F). Secondary embryo formation was also observed in lec1-1 fus3-3 and lec1-2 abi3-3 double mutants, but not in lec1 single mutants or in lec1-2 lec2 double mutants, and only rarely formed in fus3-3
 monogenic mutants (e.g., 2 of 298 seeds had secondary embryos). These 
results showed that polyembryony was not limited to a particular lec1 or fus3 allele. Control experiments showed that abnormal suspensors were also detected in early-stage lec2-1 and fus3-3 mutant embryos but not in abi3-3 mutant embryos (Table 1). Together these results indicate that LEC1 gene activity is required during early embryogenesis, in part, to suppress the embryogenic potential of the suspensor.Insertion and Deletion Mutations Identify the LEC1 Genelec1-1 and lec1-2 mutant alleles were derived from a population of plants mutagenized insertionally with T-DNA ( 
                  [11], 
                  [28] and [53]). The lec1-1 mutation is not associated with T-DNA (Meinke 1992; M. O. and J. J. H., unpublished data); however, we showed that a specific subset of the T-DNA fragments in lec1-2 was within 1.5 cM of the lec1 mutation. We identified genomic clones containing T-DNA sequences that cosegregated with the lec1 mutation from a library of lec1-2 DNA. The one clone that contained Arabidopsis DNA sequences identified restriction fragment length polymorphisms that distinguished wild-type, lec1-1, and lec1-2 genomic DNAs. Figure 3B shows that plant DNA sequences flanking the lec1-2 T-DNA identified 2.25 kb, 1.2 kb, and 0.6 kb HindIII fragments in wild-type DNA that were replaced with a 2.0 kb fragment in lec1-1 DNA. The two lec1-2 DNA fragments marked by the arrows in Figure 3B that were absent in wild-type DNA presumably represented T-DNA/plant DNA junction fragments.Figure 3. Structure and Expression of LEC1 Gene Loci(A) Diagrammatic representation of the LEC1 locus in wild-type (WT), lec1-1, and lec1-2
 chromosomes. The box represents the LEC1 open reading frame and its 
transcriptional orientation. The positions of the deletion in lec1-1 and of the T-DNA insertion in lec1-2
 are indicated. The bars represent the 3.4 kb BstYI restriction fragment
 used for the transgene complementation test and the 7.4 kb EcoRI 
restriction fragment used in (B). Vertical lines represent HindIII 
restriction sites.(B) Gel blot of genomic DNA from wild-type (wt), lec1-1, and lec1-2
 digested with HindIII and hybridized with the wild-type 7.4 kb EcoRI 
fragment shown in (A). Arrows indicate restriction fragments in lec1-2 that contain the T-DNA/plant DNA junctions.(C) Gel blot containing 2 μg polyadenylated RNA from homozygous lec1-1 siliques (lane 1), homozygous lec1-2
 siliques (lane 2), wild-type siliques (lane 3), and the leaves and 
stems of wild-type seedlings grown for 2 weeks (lane 4) were hybridized 
with the LEC1 cDNA clone. The 0.85 kb LEC1 RNA was 
detected only in wild-type siliques. Hybridization of this blot and the 
blot shown in (D) with a probe for a constitutively expressed ribosomal 
protein showed that equal amounts of RNA were present in each lane (data
 not shown).(D) Gel blot analysis of 20
 μg total RNA from wild-type siliques at three different stages 
hybridized with LEC1 cDNA clone. Lane 1, preglobular to heart stage; 
lane 2, heart to curled cotyledon stage; lane 3, maturing embryo stage.View thumbnail imagesView high quality image (253K)Restriction mapping and nucleotide sequence analyses, summarized in Figure 3A, indicated that one T-DNA complex in lec1-2
 was inserted 115 bp upstream of a 626 bp open reading frame (ORF). 
Several lines of evidence suggested that this ORF represented the LEC1 gene. First, as shown diagrammatically in Figure 3A, cloning and nucleotide sequencing studies showed that this ORF was part of a 2000 bp region deleted in lec1-1
 DNA. Second, this ORF was represented in embryo RNA. cDNA clones 
corresponding to the ORF were identified from a library of silique RNA 
that contained developing embryo mRNA. As shown in Figure 3C, this cDNA clone identified a single 0.85 kb polyadenylated RNA detected in wild-type silique RNA (lane 3) but not lec1-1 (lane 1) or lec1-2
 (lane 2) silique RNAs. This result suggested that both mutations 
compromised the expression of this ORF. Third, RNA gel blot analysis 
using the 7.4 kb EcoRI restriction fragment shown in Figure 3A
 that spanned a region 4.4 kb upstream and 2.4 kp downstream of this ORF
 did not identify any other transcript in the silique RNA. Finally, 
nucleotide sequencing studies did not reveal any other extended ORFs 
within this 7.4 kb EcoRI restriction fragment.To demonstrate directly that this ORF corresponded to the LEC1 gene, we transferred the 3394 bp fragment that contained this ORF and its 5′ and 3′ flanking DNA sequences into homozygous lec1-1 and lec1-2 mutant plants (see Figure 3A).
 Plants transformed with this ORF produced viable seeds that survived 
desiccation, germinated, and produced fertile plants with a wild-type 
vegetative phenotype. Because lec1 mutant embryos are normally 
desiccation intolerant, this result indicated that the ORF complemented 
the mutation. PCR amplification experiments and segregation analyses 
verified that all viable transgenic plants were homozygous for the lec1
 mutation and contained 1–3 copies of the transgene (data not shown). 
These data showed that the 3.4 kb fragment containing this ORF 
complemented lec1 mutations. Taken together, these results indicate that the ORF represents the LEC1 gene.LEC1 Is a Homolog of CCAAT Box–Binding FactorThe
 predicted LEC1 polypeptide shared significant sequence similarity with 
the HAP3 subunit of the CCAAT box–binding factor (CBF; Figure 4).
 Based on amino acid sequence comparisons, the HAP3 subunit is divided 
into three domains: an amino-terminal A domain, a central B domain, and a
 carboxyl-terminal C domain, as shown diagrammatically in Figure 4A (Li et al. 1992). Figure 4B
 shows that LEC1 shared between 75% and 85% similarity and between 55% 
and 63% identity with the B domains of other HAP3 homologs. This degree 
of similarity was comparable to that obtained in sequence comparisons 
among HAP3 subunits from other organisms (Li et al. 1992).
 No significant sequence similarity was detected between the A and C 
domains of LEC1 and other HAP3 homologs, or with any other polypeptide 
sequence recorded in the databases. The high degree of sequence 
conservation in the B domain strongly suggests that LEC1 is part of an 
oligomeric CBF transcriptional activator.Figure 4. Amino Acid Sequence Similarity between LEC1 and Other CBF HAP3 Homologs(A) Schematic representation of the three domains of the predicted LEC1 polypeptide.(B) Comparison of the predicted amino acid sequence of the B domain encoded by LEC1 with HAP3 homologs from maize, chicken, lamprey, Xenopus laveis, human, mouse (Li et al. 1992), rat (Vuorio et al. 1990), Emericella nidulans (Papagiannopoulos et al. 1996), Schizosaccharomyces pombe (Xing et al. 1993), Saccharomyces cerevisiae (Hahn et al. 1988), and Kluyveromyces lactis (Mulder et al. 1994).
 The DNA-binding region and the subunit interaction region are 
indicated. Numbers indicate amino acid positions of the B domains. The Xenopus sequence was derived from an incomplete cDNA clone.View thumbnail imagesView high quality image (253K)LEC1 Is Expressed Specifically within Seeds during Early and Late EmbryogenesisWe analyzed LEC1 RNA levels to determine the expression pattern of the gene during development. Figure 3C shows that LEC1
 RNA was present in developing siliques of wild-type plants (lane 3) but
 was not detected in the leaves and stems of 2-week-old vegetative 
plants (lane 4). LEC1 RNA was also not detected in gel blot 
hybridization experiments with polyadenylated RNAs from wild-type 
leaves, stems, roots, and flower buds (data not shown). Our previous 
observation that lec1 mutant embryos rescued before desiccation
 occurred produce homozygous mutant plants with no obvious vegetative 
abnormalities is consistent with this apparent seed-specific expression 
pattern (Figure 1; West et al. 1994).To define when the LEC1 gene was active during embryogenesis, we measured LEC1 RNA levels in siliques at different stages of development. As shown in Figure 3D, LEC1
 RNA was present at higher levels in siliques containing early 
preglobular to heart-stage embryos (lane 1) and heart to curled 
cotyledon–stage embryos (lane 2) than in maturing embryos (lane 3). 
These results suggest that the LEC1 gene is expressed at highest levels during early embryo development.We hybridized a LEC1 probe in situ with developing seed sections to determine the distribution of LEC1 RNA within the seed. Figure 5A and Figure 5E show that LEC1 RNA accumulated in both the embryo proper and the suspensor of an early eight-celled proembryo. Other experiments showed that LEC1 RNA was present shortly after fertilization within a two-celled proembryo and its suspensor (data not shown). LEC1 RNA was present at a higher level in early-stage embryos at the proembryo stage, globular stage (Figure 5B and Figure 5F), transition stage (Figure 5C and Figure 5G), heart stage (Figure 5D and Figure 5H), torpedo stage (Figure 5I and Figure 5M), and curled cotyledon stage (Figure 5J and Figure 5N) than in late maturing-stage embryos (Figure 5K and Figure 5O). This result was consistent with the RNA gel blot studies (Figure 3D). Beginning with the globular and transition stages (Figure 5F and Figure 5G), LEC1
 RNA became restricted to the embryo periphery, primarily within the 
outer protoderm and the ground tissue cell layers. By contrast, the 
extent of hybridization was much less in the procambial tissue at the 
center of the embryo proper (Figure 5G and Figure 5H). The LEC1
 RNA accumulation pattern changed gradually during the progression from 
the linear to curled cotyledon stages when the RNA became distributed 
throughout the embryo (Figure 5N).Figure 5. Distribution of LEC1 mRNA in Developing EmbryosWild-type and lec1-1 mutant seed sections were hybridized with a LEC1
 antisense RNA probe and photographed following autoradiography. 
Sections (A)–(D) and (I)–(L) were stained with toluidine blue and 
photographed. Sections (E)–(H) and (M)–(P) were photographed with 
darkfield optics. As a negative control, the LEC1 probe was hybridized to seed sections of lec1-1 mutants. Hybridization with a LEC1
 sense RNA probe did not yield detectable signals (data not shown). 
Bars, 50 μm. a, embryonic axis; c, cotyledon; en, endosperm; ep, embryo 
proper; s, suspensor.(A and E) Preglobular embryo.(B and F) Globular-stage embryo.(C and G) Transition-stage embryo.(D and H) Heart-stage embryo.(I and M) Torpedo/linear cotyledon–stage embryo.(J and N) Bent cotyledon–stage embryo.(K and O) Maturing embryo.(L and P) lec1-1 mutant heart–stage embryo.View thumbnail imagesView high quality image (381K)As shown in Figure 5H, Figure 5M, and Figure 5N, LEC1
 RNA also accumulated in the endosperm, a triploid nonembryonic seed 
tissue that originates from the fertilization of the central cell of a 
female gametophyte with a sperm nucleus. Figure 5 also shows that LEC1 RNA was not detected in maternally derived silique and seed coat tissues, indicating that the LEC1 RNA detected in silique RNA gel blots was present primarily within the seed (Figure 3C and Figure 3D). Furthermore, Figure 5L and Figure 5P show that the hybridization reactions were specific for LEC1 RNA; no appreciable hybridization was observed within an early-stage seed of the lec1-1 null mutant. The pattern of LEC1 gene expression and the lec1 mutant phenotype suggest strongly that the LEC1 gene functions specifically during embryogenesis, including the earliest embryonic period.LEC1 Is Sufficient to Induce Embryonic PathwaysBecause
 LEC1 appears to function as a specific regulator of embryo development,
 we wanted to know whether ectopic expression of the LEC1 gene after embryogenesis affected vegetative development. We transferred a LEC1 cDNA clone under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter into lec1-1 null mutants. The 35S promoter is active at a high level in most plant tissues (Odell et al. 1985).We obtained viable, desiccated T1 seeds from lec1-1 mutants transformed in planta with the 35S/LEC1 construct. This result showed that the transgene complemented the mutation because lec1 mutant seeds are intolerant of desiccation (Figure 1).
 However, viable seed production was a relatively rare event; T1 seeds 
germinated with an efficiency of only 0.006%, much less than the 1% 
efficiency typically obtained from in planta transformation experiments.
 Three-fourths of the seeds that germinated (33 of 43) produced T1 
seedlings with abnormal terminal morphologies as shown in Figure 6B and Figure 6C. These 35S/LEC1 seedlings were smaller than wild-type seedlings (Figure 6A),
 and they possessed cotyledons that remained fleshy and failed to 
expand. Their roots often did not extend or extended only in sections 
and sometimes greened. As shown in Figure 6C, /LEC1
 seedlings sometimes produced a single pair of cotyledon-like organs on 
the shoot apex at positions normally occupied by leaves. Unlike 
wild-type leaves, these organs did not expand and did not possess 
trichomes or mature stomatal structures (Figure 6C; data not shown). Morphologically, these organs closely resembled embryonic cotyledons.Figure 6. 35S/LEC1 Seedlings Have Embryonic Characteristics(A) Comparison of a wild-type seedling grown for 2 weeks (left) with two 35S/LEC1 seedlings (right) that are shown at a higher magnification in (B) and (C).(B) 35S/LEC1 seedling grown for 4 weeks that germinated but did not continue to develop.(C) Two-week-old 35S/LEC1 seedling that produced a pair of cotyledon-like organs at the shoot apex.(D–F) Darkfield micrographs of 35S/LEC1 seedling sections hybridized with probes for the following RNAs: (D) cruciferin A storage protein; (E) oleosin; (F) LEC1.c, cotyledon; cl, cotyledon-like organ; l, leaf; r, root. Bars, 1 mm for (A)–(C) and 0.1 mm for (D)–(F).View thumbnail imagesView high quality image (253K)Ten of the T1 35S/LEC1
 seedlings produced plants that grew vegetatively. One plant was male 
sterile and did not produce progeny. Seven other plants flowered and 
produced T2 progeny that all displayed the Lec1− phenotype though PCR amplification experiments confirmed the presence of the 35S/LEC1 transgene (data not shown). This result suggested that the 35S/LEC1 gene was initially active in developing T1 seeds to complement the lec1 mutation but that the gene became inactive after germination. Others have observed transgene silencing in plants ( 
                  [25] and [45]).
 Two of the ten plants that grew vegetatively were exceptional in that 
they produced progeny with variable phenotypes. Only 25% of total 
desiccated seed from one plant, 20-3, was able to germinate, and all 
seedlings initially recapitulated the embryo-like seedling phenotypes 
shown in Figure 6B and Figure 6C.
 All T2 progeny from the second, independently derived line, 21-4, also 
exhibited the embryo-like seedling phenotypes shown in Figure 6B and Figure 6C. Thus, the ability of 35S/LEC1 plants to produce seedlings with an embryonic morphology was heritable to the T2 generation. T2 35S/LEC1 plants that were fertile only produced progeny with a Lec1− phenotype.Because the 35S/LEC1
 seedlings had embryonic morphological characteristics, we asked whether
 they express genes normally active only in developing seeds. Figure 6D shows that cruciferin A storage protein RNA accumulated throughout 35S/LEC1
 T2 seedlings displaying embryonic characteristics, including the 
cotyledon-like organs at the position of leaves. Similar results were 
obtained in experiments with independently derived T1 embryo-like 
seedlings. We also showed that other embryo-specific RNAs encoding 
oleosin, an oil body protein (Figure 6E), and two 2S storage proteins (data not shown) accumulated similarly in these embryo-like seedlings. We confirmed that LEC1 RNA accumulated in these 35S/LEC1 seedlings (Figure 6F) but not in wild-type seedlings (data not shown; Figure 3C). Thus, 35S/LEC1 seedlings displaying an embryo-like phenotype accumulated embryo-specific RNAs. Together, these results suggest that ectopic LEC1 gene expression induces embryonic programs in vegetative cells.Of the T2 35S/LEC1 seedlings that displayed embryonic characteristics (Figure 6B and Figure 6C),
 most of the progeny from one line, 21-4, and approximately 10% from the
 second line, 20-3, continued to grow vegetatively, unlike the T1 
seedlings that were arrested developmentally. These T2 plants displayed 
morphological abnormalities ranging from plants shown in Figure 7A
 with multiple embryonic cotyledon-like organs to plants with small, 
dark green abnormally shaped leaves that often produced callus-like 
cells. Immunochemical analysis showed that these plants accumulated 
cruciferin storage protein (data not shown), suggesting that these 
vegetatively growing plants expressed embryonic programs.Figure 7. Embryo-like Structures on Transgenic Plants Ectopically Expressing the LEC1 Gene(A) 35S/LEC1 seedling that grew vegetatively and produced multiple cotyledon-like organs.(B) Embryo-like structures on the leaf of a 35S/LEC1 plant that grew vegetatively.(C) Axes of embryo-like structures that “germinated” to produce roots.(D and E) SEM analysis of embryo-like structures. Structures resemble fused cotyledon-stage embryos with multiple cotyledons.(F) SEM of wild-type cotyledon-stage embryo.a, axis; c, cotyledon; l, leaf; r, root. Bars, 1 mm (A and C), 0.5 mm (B), 0.1 mm (D and E), and 0.05 mm (F).View thumbnail imagesView high quality image (256K)A striking phenotype of the T2 progeny is shown in Figure 7B. We discovered embryo-like structures on the leaves of three progeny plants from the two independently derived 35S/LEC1 lines. As shown in Figure 7D, these structures resembled fused wild-type cotyledon-stage embryos (Figure 7F).
 Multiple embryonic cotyledon-like organs that lacked trichomes and 
mature stomata were attached to structures that resembled embryonic axes
 with elongated cells typical of wild-type embryos (Figure 7E;
 data not shown). Histological analyses suggested that, like wild-type 
embryos, these embryo-like structures possessed an outer protoderm 
layer, a central procambium layer, and ground tissue that consisted of 
several distinct files of cells (data not shown). Similar to embryos, 
the ground tissue cells of the ectopic embryos were densely cytoplasmic.
 Figure 7C
 shows roots that emerged from the axes tips, suggesting that these axes
 share similar functions with wild-type embryos. Finally, in situ 
hybridization experiments showed that embryo-specific RNAs encoding 
cruciferin A and 2S-1 storage proteins accumulated in these embryo-like 
structures but were not detected in the underlying leaf cells (data not 
shown). We conclude that postembryonic expression of the LEC1 gene is sufficient to induce embryo formation in vegetative tissues of these two lines.DiscussionLEC1 Is a Transcriptional Activator HomologWe
 have shown that the LEC1 polypeptide is homologous to the HAP3 subunit 
of the CBF class of eukaryotic transcriptional activators that includes 
NF-Y, CP1, and HAP2/3/4/5 (Johnson and McKnight 1989).
 The sequence similarity between LEC1 and other HAP3 subunits is 
restricted to the B domain, consistent with the finding that this domain
 is conserved evolutionarily (Li et al. 1992).
 Furthermore, amino acid residues of yeast and mammalian HAP3 subunits 
required for DNA binding and for interactions with other CBF subunits 
are conserved in LEC1 (Figure 4; 
                  [55] and [44]).
 Experiments demonstrating that yeast and mammalian CBF subunits can be 
combined to form DNA-binding complexes indicate that this amino acid 
sequence similarity underlies functional conservation (
                  [6] and [43]).CBFs
 are heteroligomeric transcription factors, but it is not known whether 
the plant CBF is organized as its yeast counterpart into four 
nonhomologous subunits, HAP2, 3, 4, and 5, or is similar to the trimeric
 mammalian CBF (
                  [24] and [27]). Oilseed rape, maize, and Arabidopsis
 DNA sequences encoding HAP2, HAP3, and HAP5 homologs have been 
identified, although the functional roles of the plant proteins have not
 been established ( 
                  [21], 
                  [33] and [1]). Several distinct Arabidopsis
 DNA sequences have been identified that correspond to each of these 
subunits, including the LEC1/HAP3 subunit, implicating the existence of 
gene families.Because LEC1 is a 
component of a plant CBF, we predict that it regulates embryonic 
processes by activating the transcription of specific genes. Mammalian 
CBFs are thought to serve a general role in transcription by optimizing 
promoter efficiency through its binding with CCAAT DNA sequences that 
are found 50–100 bp upstream of many mammalian genes (Myers et al. 1986).
 However, some mammalian CBFs have been shown to increase the 
transcriptional activities of specific genes by their association with 
other transcription factors (
                  [54] and [10]).
 The CBF containing LEC1 is unlikely to serve a general role in 
transcription for several reasons. First, CBFs in other organisms 
regulate specific gene sets. For example, yeast CBFs specifically 
activate genes encoding mitochondrial proteins involved in respiration (
                  [14], 
                  [19], 
                  [48] and [40]).
 Second, CCAAT boxes are not typically found upstream of most plant 
genes near position −80, and mutation of the CCAAT sequence within the 
35S promoter does not affect promoter activity or footprint formation (Benfey and Chua 1990). Third, lec1
 null mutations, although pleiotropic, do not abrogate the transcription
 of many genes, including those encoding cruciferin A, oleosin, and late
 embryogenesis abundant proteins (West et al. 1994). Thus, the Lec1−
 phenotype most likely results from abnormal transcription of specific 
genes regulated by the CBF containing LEC1. Finally, expression of the 
35S/LEC1 gene in postembryonic plants induces embryonic 
processes, indicating that specific gene sets required for embryo 
development are activated by LEC1 (Figure 6 and Figure 7). We conclude that LEC1 is a specific transcriptional regulator of genes required for normal Arabidopsis embryo development.LEC1 Is a Central Regulator of EmbryogenesisA
 key to define the precise role of LEC1 in embryo development is to 
understand whether LEC1 functions throughout embryogenesis or 
specifically during either the morphogenesis phase or the maturation 
phase. We and others speculated previously that LEC1 might function 
solely during morphogenesis as a homeotic regulator of cotyledon 
identity (
                  [28] and [53]). Cotyledons and leaves are homologous organs. Incomplete specification of organ identity resulting from the lec1 mutation could cause cotyledons to acquire leaf characteristics and defects in seed maturation (Figure 1). However, LEC1 RNA is distributed throughout the embryo and in the endosperm but not exclusively in developing cotyledons (Figure 5). These results suggest that LEC1
 does not act solely in the specification of cotyledon identity. An 
alternative hypothesis is that LEC1 might act exclusively to regulate 
the maturation phase of embryogenesis ( 
                  [53] and [39]). Because germination is actively suppressed during embryo development (Harada 1997),
 defects in maturation processes are expected to cause premature 
activation of postgerminative development. Thus, the phenotype of lec1 mutants (Figure 1) could result from the heterochronic effects of the mutation. Our finding that LEC1 is expressed early in embryogenesis and is required for early embryo development (Figure 2 and Figure 3)
 indicates that LEC1 functions before the onset of maturation and, 
therefore, cannot be involved only in regulating this late embryonic 
phase. The simplest interpretation is that LEC1 plays a more central 
role in embryo development.The ability of LEC1
 to induce embryonic programs in vegetative cells establishes the gene 
as a critical regulator of embryogenesis. The seed maturation phase of 
embryogenesis is induced, at least in part, in seedlings expressing the 
gene as indicated by the activation of cruciferin A and 2S storage 
protein genes and the oleosin gene (Figure 6). The failure of 35S/LEC1 seedlings with embryonic characteristics (Figure 6)
 to continue vegetative development is also consistent with induction of
 maturation because morphogenesis is normally arrested during the seed 
maturation phase (Harada 1997). Because the LEC1
 gene is not normally expressed postembryonically, this result suggests 
that LEC1 may activate genes that suppress vegetative development. Our 
previous finding that postgerminative development is activated 
prematurely in lec1 mutant embryos is consistent with this intepretation (West et al. 1994).
 Alternatively, LEC1 may interfere with interactions between 
transcription factors in seedlings, creating a dominant-negative 
mutation that disrupts vegetative development. The effect of LEC1 gene expression on postembryonic development may explain the low germination frequency of 35S/LEC1 T1 seeds and the rarity with which we recovered vegetative plants with embryonic structures. The 35S/LEC1 transgene must be active in the developing lec1 mutant seeds to permit the completion of embryo development, yet the activity of the LEC1 gene is antagonistic to vegetative development. Thus, continued overexpression of the 35S/LEC1
 gene following germination is likely to inhibit vegetative development,
 and silencing of the transgene probably produced plants with the Lec1− phenotype. Because transgene activity is highly variable in independent transformants ( 
                  [25] and [45]),
 only those rare transgenic plants producing LEC1 protein at a critical 
level may be competent to produce vegetative plants with embryonic 
structures. Together, these results indicate that LEC1 is sufficient to 
induce many aspects of the maturation phase of embryogenesis in 
vegetative cells.The formation of embryo-like structures on the leaves of 35S/LEC1 plants (Figure 7)
 strongly suggests that LEC1 is sufficient to induce the morphogenesis 
phase of embryo development, although it remains to be determined how 
closely ectopic embryo formation follows zygotic embryogenesis. 
Additional evidence that ectopic LEC1 gene expression induces 
embryonic structures comes from preliminary experiments showing that 
embryonic cotyledon-like structures form on seedlings ectopically 
expressing the LEC1 gene from a different promoter (R. W. K. and J. J. H., unpublished results). Our findings that the lec1 mutation causes defects in suspensor morphology in early-stage embryos (Figure 2) and that the LEC1 gene is expressed at the earliest stages of embryo development (Figure 5) provide independent evidence of LEC1 function early in embryogenesis. This conclusion is also consistent with genetic analyses of lec1 lec2 double mutants. Although lec1 and lec2
 mutants at their terminal stages resemble late-stage embryos, the 
double mutant arrests with the morphology of an early torpedo-stage 
embryo, suggesting a role for both genes in early embryogenesis (data 
not shown; Meinke et al. 1994).The
 ability of LEC1 to induce both the morphogenesis and maturation phases 
of embryogenesis and to suppress vegetative development suggests its 
fundamental role in regulating different aspects of embryogenesis. As 
discussed above, other genes shown to be required for embryo development
 do not function seed-specifically throughout embryogenesis. LEC1 is the only gene shown to be sufficient to induce embryo formation in vegetatively growing plants. For example, ABI3
 has been implicated to play a critical role in controlling the late 
seed maturation phase of embryogenesis. Transgenic plants containing a 35S/ABI3 gene express a subset of genes normally active during seed maturation when challenged with the hormone ABA (Parcy et al. 1994). Ectopic ABI3
 gene expression does not cause visible defects in vegetative or 
reproductive development in these transgenic plants, suggesting that 
ABI3 is not sufficient to induce the maturation phase. This result 
suggests that, unlike LEC1, the role of ABI3 is more limited to regulating gene sets expressed during seed maturation. Double mutant analyses indicating that LEC1 and ABI3 do not appear to act in series in the same genetic pathway are consistent with this interpretation (data not shown; Meinke et al. 1994). We note that it has recently been reported that embryonic programs are induced in vegetative root cells of the pickle mutant (Ogas et al. 1997).Considering that LEC1 can induce embryo development in vegetative cells, why is the Lec1− phenotype not more severe? Although lec1 mutant embryos are intolerant of desiccation, they continue to undergo many aspects of morphogenesis and seed maturation (see Figure 1). A clue comes from analyses of cruciferin A, oleosin, and 2S storage protein gene expression. These genes are expressed in 35S/LEC1 seedlings, yet they are also active in lec1 mutant embryos (Figure 6; West et al. 1994).
 Thus, LEC1 is sufficient but not necessary for their expression, 
implicating genetic redundancy. That is, another gene, possibly the 
other LEC genes LEC2 and/or FUS3, may partially fulfill LEC1 function during embryogenesis.In
 conclusion, we have shown that LEC1 is a transcription factor homolog 
that is required early and late in embryo development and that it is 
sufficient to induce embryonic programs in vegetative cells. Together, 
our results suggest that LEC1 is a major embryonic regulator that 
mediates the switch between embryo and vegetative development. LEC1's 
role in inducing and maintaining embryogenesis while suppressing 
vegetative development is likely to be critical for the establishment of
 the seed habit of higher plants. Given this central role, the LEC1
 gene and its protein will be important tools for the dissection of 
higher plant embryogenesis. In particular, one key will be to identify 
the downstream genes regulated by LEC1 and the protein(s) with which it 
interacts in establishing the regulatory circuits controlling embryonic 
development.Experimental ProceduresPlant Materiallec1-1, lec1-2, and lec2-1 mutants were derived from a population of Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Wassilewskija (Ws-O) lines mutagenized with T-DNA insertions ( 
                  [11] and [28]Meinke, 1992, 1994; West et al. 1994). abi3-3 and fus3-3 mutants and lec2-1 were provided by Peter McCourt (University of Toronto;  
                  [32] and [18]) and by David Meinke (Oklahoma State University). Plants were grown as described previously (West et al. 1994).
 Digenic mutants were constructed and their genotypes were verified 
through backcrosses with each parental line as described previously (West et al. 1994).Isolation and Sequence Analysis of Genomic and cDNA ClonesGenomic DNA libraries from homozygous lec1-1 and lec1-2
 mutants were constructed in the λGEM 11 vector (Promega). A wild-type 
Ws-O genomic library was provided by Ken Feldmann (University of 
Arizona). Two cDNA libraries were prepared according to manufacturers' 
specifications in the λZAPII bacteriophage vector (Stratagene) from 
wild-type siliques containing globular- to heart-stage embryos and 
heart- to young torpedo-stage embryos.Clones were isolated from the lec1-2
 genomic library using probes for the right and left T-DNA borders. A 
7.1 kb XhoI fragment containing the plant DNA/T-DNA junction was 
isolated and cloned into the Bluescript-KS plasmid (Stratagene) to 
create pML7. A 4.2 kb EcoR I fragment containing plant DNA from pML7 was used to isolate genomic clones from a wild-type Ws-0 library. A 7.4 kb EcoR
 I fragment present in several overlapping clones was inserted into the 
Bluescript-KS plasmid and used to identify corresponding clones from a lec1-1 genomic library and from the wild-type silique cDNA libraries. Eighteen LEC1 cDNA clones were isolated and entirely or partially sequenced; all sequences were identical to corresponding regions of the LEC1
 gene. Additional details of the cloning experiments are available upon 
request. Nucleotide sequencing was done using the automated dideoxy 
chain termination method on an ABI Prism 377 DNA Sequencer. Database 
searches were performed at the National Center for Biotechnology 
Information by using the BLAST network service. Alignment of protein 
sequences was done using PILEUP program (Genetics Computer Group, 
Madison, WI).Production of Transgenic lec1 MutantsA 3.4 kb BstYI fragment containing the wild-type LEC1 gene was inserted into the plant transformation vector, pBIB-Hyg (Becker 1990). A full-length LEC1
 cDNA was fused in the proper transcriptional orientation with the 35S 
promoter and the octopine synthase terminator into the plasmid, pART7 (Gleave 1992).
 The entire fusion gene was transferred into the plant transformation 
vector BJ49. Constructs were transferred into homozygous lec1-1 and/or lec1-2 mutants using the in planta transformation procedure with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 (Bechtold et al. 1993). Genotypes of the complemented plants were verified in DNA amplification experiments. T2 plants containing the 35S/LEC1 transgene were either germinated from dry seeds or rescued from siliques and grown on basal media (Olsen et al. 1993).DNA and RNA Hybridization AnalysesNucleic acid isolation and gel blot hybridization experiments were done as described previously (West et al. 1994). In situ hybridization experiments were performed as described previously (Dietrich et al. 1989).Scanning Electron MicroscopySEM analysis was performed as described previously (Yadegari et al. 1994).AcknowledgementsWe
 thank Jay Danao, Minsung Kim, and Sara Wortley for their help with 
experiments, Bart Janssen for vectors, K.C. McFarland of the NSF-Plant 
Cell Biology Training Facility for help in generating figures, and 
Neelima Sinha for comments about the manuscript. T. L. was supported by a
 postdoctoral fellowship from the Human Frontiers Science Program, M. O.
 was supported by postdoctoral fellowships for research abroad from the 
Japanese Society for the Promotion of Science and from Kenzo Nakamura, 
National Institute of Basic Biology, and K. Y. was supported in part by a
 postdoctoral fellowship from the Japanese Society for the Promotion of 
Science. This work was supported by a grant from the Department of 
Energy.
            prs.rt("ref_start");
            References1D Albani, L.S RobertCloning and characterization of a Brassica napus gene encoding a homologue of the B subunit of a heteromeric CCAAT-binding factorGene, 167 (1995), pp. 209–2132H Baumlein, S Misera, H Luerben, K Kolle, C Horstmann, U Wobus, A.J MullerThe FUS3 gene of Arabidopsis thaliana is a regulator of gene expression during late embryogenesisPlant J., 6 (1994), pp. 379–3873N Bechtold, J Ellis, G PelletierIn planta Agrobacterium mediated gene transfer by infiltration of adult Arabidopsis thaliana plantsC.R. Acad. Sci. Paris, 316 (1993), pp. 1194–11994D BeckerBinary vectors which allow the exchange of plant selectable markers and reporter genesNucleic Acids Res., 18 (1990), p. 2035P.N Benfey, N.-H ChuaThe cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promotercombinatorial regulation of transcription in plantsScience, 250 (1990), pp. 959–9666L.A Chodosh, J Olesen, S Hahn, A.S Baldwin, L Guarente, P.A SharpA yeast and a human CCAAT-binding protein have heterologous subunits that are functionally interchangeableCell, 53 (1988), pp. 25–367M Devic, S Albert, M DelsenyInduction and expression of seed-specific promoters in Arabidopsis embryo-defective mutantsPlant J., 9 (1996), pp. 205–2158R.A Dietrich, D.J Maslyar, R.C Heupel, J.J HaradaSpatial patterns of gene expression in Brassica napus
 seedlingsidentification of a cortex-specific gene and localization of 
messenger RNA encoding isocitrate lyase and a polypeptide homologous to 
proteinasesPlant Cell, 1 (1989), pp. 73–809L Di Laurenzio, J Wysocka-Diller, J.E Malamy, L Pysh, Y Helariutta, G Freshour, M.G Hahn, K.A Feldmann, P.N BenfeyThe SCARECROW gene regulates an asymmetric cell division that is essential for generating the radial organization of the Arabidopsis rootCell, 86 (1996), pp. 423–43310J Ericsson, S.M Jackson, P.A EdwardsSynergistic
 binding of sterol regulatory element-binding protein and NF-Y to the 
farnesyl diphosphate synthase promoter is critical for sterol-regulated 
expression of the geneJ. Biol. Chem., 271 (1996), pp. 24359–2436411K.A Feldmann, M.D MarksAgrobacterium-mediated transformation of germinating seeds of Arabidopsis thalianaa non-tissue culture approachMol. Gen. Genet., 208 (1987), pp. 1–912A.P GleaveA
 versatile binary vector system with a T-DNA organisational structure 
conducive to efficient integration of cloned DNA into the plant genomePlant Mol. Biol., 20 (1992), pp. 1203–120713R.B Goldberg, G De Paiva, R YadegariPlant embryogenesiszygote to seedScience, 266 (1994), pp. 605–61414L Guarente, B Lalonde, P Gifford, E AlaniDistinctly regulated tandem upstream activation sites mediate catabolite repression of the CYC1 genes of S. cerevisiaeCell, 32 (1984), pp. 317–32115S Hahn, J Pinkham, R Wei, R Miller, L GuarenteThe HAP3 regulatory locus of Saccharomyces cerevisiae encodes divergent overlapping transcriptsMol. Cell. Biol., 8 (1988), pp. 655–66316Harada,
 J.J. (1997). Seed maturation and control of germination. In Advances in
 Cellular and Molecular Biology of Plants, Volume 4, Cellular 
and Molecular Biology of Seed Development, B.A. Larkins and I.K. Vasi, 
eds. (Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers), pp. 545–592.17P.F Johnson, SL McKnightEukaryotic transcriptional regulatory proteinsAnnu. Rev. Biochem., 58 (1989), pp. 799–84018K Keith, M Kraml, N.G Dengler, P McCourtfusca3a heterochronic mutation affecting late embryo development in ArabidopsisPlant Cell, 6 (1994), pp. 589–60019T Keng, L GuarenteConstitutive expression of the yeast HEM1 gene is actually a composite of activation and repressionProc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 84 (1987), pp. 9113–911720M Koornneef, G Reuling, C.M KarssenThe isolation and characterization of abscisic acid-insensitive mutants of Arabidopsis thalianaPhysiol. Plant, 61 (1984), pp. 377–38321X.-Y Li, R Mantvani, R Hooft Van Huijsduijnen, I Andre, C Benoist, D MathisEvolutionary variation of the CCAAT-binding transcription factor NF-YNucleic Acids Res., 20 (1992), pp. 1087–109122J.A Long, E.I Moan, J.I Medford, M.K BartonA member of the KNOTTED class of homeodomain proteins encoded by the STM gene of ArabidopsisNature, 379 (1996), pp. 66–6923W Lukowitz, U Mayer, G JuergensCytokinesis in the Arabidopsis embryo involves the syntaxin-related KNOLLE gene productCell, 84 (1996), pp. 61–7124S.N Maity, S Sinha, E.C Ruteshouser, B De CrombruggheThree different polypeptides are necessary for DNA binding of the mammalian heteromeric CCAAT binding factorJ. Biol. Chem., 267 (1992), pp. 16574–1658025M.A Matzke, A.J.M MatzkeHow and why do plants inactivate homologous (trans)genes?Plant Physiol., 107 (1995), pp. 679–68526U Mayer, R.A.T Torres Ruiz, T Berleth, S Misera, G JurgensMutations affecting body organization in the Arabidopsis embryoNature, 353 (1991), pp. 402–40727D.S McNabb, Y Xing, L GuarenteCloning of yeast HAP5a novel subunit of a heterotrimeric complex required for CCAAT bindingGenes Dev., 9 (1994), pp. 47–5828D.W MeinkeA homoeotic mutant of Arabidopsis thaliana with leafy cotyledonsScience, 258 (1992), pp. 1647–165029D.W Meinke, L.H Franzmann, T.C Nickle, E.C Yeungleafy cotyledon mutants of ArabidopsisPlant Cell, 6 (1994), pp. 1049–106430W Mulder, I.H Scholten, R.W de Boer, L.A GrivellSequence of the HAP3 transcription factor of Kluyveromyces lactis predicts the presence of a novel 4-cysteine zinc-finger motifMol. Gen. Genet., 245 (1994), pp. 96–10631R.M Myers, K Tilly, T ManiatisFine structure genetic analysis of a beta-globin promoterScience, 232 (1986), pp. 613–61832E Nambara, S Naito, P McCourtA mutant of Arabidopsis which is defective in seed development and storage protein accumulation is a new abi3 allelePlant J., 2 (1992), pp. 435–44133T Newman, F.J De Bruijn, P Green, K Keegstra, H Kende, L McIntosh, J Ohlrogge, N Raikhel, S Somerville, M Thomashow et al.Genes galorea summary of methods for accessing results from large-scale partial sequencing of anonymous Arabidopsis cDNA clonesPlant Physiol., 106 (1994), pp. 1241–125534J.T Odell, F Nagy, N.-H ChuaIdentification of DNA sequences required for activity of cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoterNature, 313 (1985), pp. 810–81235J Ogas, J.-C Cheng, Z.R Sung, C SomervilleCellular differentiation regulated by gibberellin in the Arabidopsis thaliana pickle mutantScience, 277 (1997), pp. 91–9436L.J Olsen, W.F Ettinger, B Damsz, K.L Matsudaira, M.A Webb, J.J HaradaTargeting of glyoxysomal proteins to peroxisomes in leaves and roots of a higher plantPlant Cell, 5 (1993), pp. 941–95237P Papagiannopoulos, A Andrianopoulos, J.A Sharp, M.A Davis, M.J HynesThe hapC gene of Aspergillus nidulans is involved in the expression of CCAAT-containing promotersMol. Gen. Genet., 251 (1996), pp. 412–42138F Parcy, C Valon, M Raynal, P Gaubier-Comella, M Delseny, J GiraudatRegulation of gene expression programs during Arabidopsis seed developmentroles of the ABI3 locus and of endogenous abscisic acidPlant Cell, 6 (1994), pp. 1567–158239F Parcy, C Valon, A Kohara, S Misera, J GiraudatThe ABSCISIC ACID-INSENSITIVE3, FUSCA3, and LEAFY COTYLEDON1 loci act in concert to control multiple aspects of Arabidopsis seed developmentPlant Cell, 9 (1997), pp. 1265–127740J.C Schneider, L GuarenteRegulation of the yeast CYT1 gene encoding cytochrome c1 by HAP1 and HAP2/3/4Mol. Cell Biol., 11 (1991), pp. 4934–494241B.W Schwartz, E.C Yeung, D.W MeinkeDisruption of morphogenesis and transformation of the suspensor in abnormal suspensor mutants of ArabidopsisDevelopment, 120 (1994), pp. 3235–324542D.E Shevell, W.-M Leu, C.S Gillmor, G Xia, K.A Feldmann, N.-H ChuaEMB30
 is essential for normal cell division, cell expansion, and cell 
adhesion in arabidopsis and encodes a protein that has similarity to 
Sec7Cell, 77 (1994), pp. 1051–106243S Sinha, S.N Maity, J Lu, B de CrombruggheRecombinant
 rat CBF-C, the third subunit of CBF/NFY, allows formation of a 
protein-DNA complex with CBF-A and CBF-B and with yeast HAP2 and HAP3Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 92 (1995), pp. 1624–162844S Sinha, I.S Kim, K.-Y Sohn, B de Crombrugghe, S.N MaityThree
 classes of mutations in the A subunit of the CCAAT-binding factor CBF 
delineate functional domains involved in the three-step assembly of the 
CBF-DNA complexMol. Cell. Biol., 16 (1996), pp. 328–33745M Stam, J.N.M Mol, J.M KoosterThe silence of genes in transgenic plantsAnn. Bot., 79 (1997), pp. 3–1246T.A SteevesThe evolution and biological significance of seedsCan. J. Bot., 61 (1983), pp. 3550–356047T.A Steeves, I.M SussexPatterns in Plant Development, Second EditionCambridge University Press, Cambridge (1989)48C.E Trueblood, R.M Wright, R.O PoytonDifferential regulation of the two genes encoding Saccharomyces cervisiae cytochrome oxidase subunit V by heme and HAP2 and REO1 genesMol. Cell Biol., 8 (1988), pp. 4537–474049R Tsugeki, E.Z Kochieva, N.V FedoroffA transposon insertion in the Arabidopsis SSR16 gene causes an embryo-defective lethal mutationPlant J., 10 (1996), pp. 479–48950T Vuorio, S.N Maity, B de CrombrugghePurification and molecular cloning of the “A” chain of a ratJ. Biol. Chem., 265 (1990), pp. 22480–2248651Walbot,
 V. (1978). Control mechanisms for plant embryogeny. In Dormancy and 
Developmental Arrest, M.E. Clutter, ed. (New York: Academic Press, 
Inc.), pp. 113–166.52M.A West, J.J HaradaEmbryogenesis in higher plantsan overviewPlant Cell, 5 (1993), pp. 1361–136953M.A.L West, K.L Matsudaira Yee, J Danao, J.L Zimmerman, R.L Fischer, R.B Goldberg, J.J HaradaLEAFY COTYLEDON1 is an essential regulator of late embryogenesis and cotyledon identity in ArabidopsisPlant Cell, 6 (1994), pp. 1731–174554K.L Wright, B.J Vilen, Y Itoh-Lindstrom, T.L Moore, G Li, M Criscitiello, P Cogswell, J.B Clarke, J.P.-Y TingCCAAT box binding protein NF-Y facilitates in vivo recruitment of upstream DNA binding transcription factorsEMBO J., 13 (1994), pp. 4042–405355Y Xing, J.D Fikes, L GuarenteMutations in yeast HAP2/HAP3 define a hybrid CCAAT box binding domainEMBO J., 12 (1993), pp. 4647–465556R Yadegari, G.R De Paiva, T Laux, A.M Koltunow, N Apuya, J.L Zimmerman, R.L Fischer, J.J Harada, R.B GoldbergCell differentiation and morphogenesis are uncoupled in Arabidopsis raspberry embryosPlant Cell, 6 (1994), pp. 1713–1729Further readingThe accession number for the sequence reported in this paper is AF036684.Correspondence: John J. Harada, 916 752 0673 (phone), 916 752 5410 (fax)1To whom correspondence should be addressed.2Present address: Department of Developmental Biology, National Institute for Basic Biology, Myodaijicho, Okazaki, 444 Japan.3Present address: Department of Vegetable Crops, University of California, Davis, California 95616.4Present address: Department of Genetics, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195.Copyright © 1998 Cell Press.  All rights reserved.
      prs.rt('data_end');
  
